hey everyone welcome back to another
meet Kevin report we are on episode 75.
welcome back first thing we're going to
talk about is the IMF is now warning
that the five year growth outlook for
the entire world is likely to be the
weakest that we have seen since the
1990s this is in a piece by a Bloomberg
that apparently now the international
monetary fund is warning uh and urging
Nations uh that basically they need to
avoid economic fragmentation caused by
geopolitical tension and take steps to
boost productivity because otherwise
we're going to be as a globe doing way
less well than we might otherwise so
let's try to translate that to English
let's think about that really what
they're trying to say is hey look we've
got massive issues across the globe
we've got a crisis in Russia that's
leading to more of a partnership
potentially between countries like
Russia and Iran uh Korea North Korea and
China whereas we're getting that sort of
fragmentation on the west where at the
West maybe you have this desire of
America to work with Europe as usual uh
as well as Ukraine but you have this
fragmentation potentially occurring with
South America uh so TBD but point being
the walls are the um the Bloomberg
report really suggests that without
strong Global growth we could accept we
could have excess Global poverty and I
think it's very interesting to think of
economic growth from the point of view
of uh All Nations together rather than
just America or just where it is that we
are living uh so I think that uh that is
pretty uh pretty remarkable uh in a
pretty remarkable warning really it it
almost uh kind of reminds me of the days
I talked about a Frugal decade back in
2020 obviously with the amount of
stimulus that we had received there's no
way there was going to to be a set of
frugal years ahead with the amount of
money that was handed out and printed
but beyond that if potential for a
Frugal decade in the longer run could be
quite interesting in this IMF report
kind of alludes to that where we think
about it you're really putting people
through dual economic shocks you put
them through the shock of covid and the
psychological lockdowns of covid the
lack of human interaction for what a
year plus since depending on what state
you were in maybe if you were in Florida
you never had that problem but uh anyway
the uh that's one and then of course
number two whatever it is we're going
through now you know what what if this
recession is not just a two-year uh
recession uh where it's 2022 and 2023
but instead it's it's five years long
and I think that's something that a lot
of us think that this recession will be
quite shallow and uh quick quick to end
uh but unfortunately no guarantees about
that so uh you know we've uh
unfortunately got to get some concerns
from that uh POV that uh maybe there is
a more of a downside risk hopefully not
I don't think so I still maintain my
belief in the Nike Swoosh so we'll see
we'll see today if the jobs report can
reiterate the Nike Swoosh that would be
very nice the jobs report is expected to
come out within the next five minutes
we'll go through the surveys and
expectations as well as uh we'll we'll
uh we'll see what what is up ahead I
will go through uh quickly what Barons
is suggesting so uh Barons is suggesting
that quote a jobs slowdown that could be
here let's go ahead and share the screen
with it and we can look at it together
so let's see here we will present the
extra camera of the iPad okay all right
look at that
fantastic
fantastic
all right there we go
and uh
there we go we'll throw life insurance
up okay job slowdown could be here what
to watch for in today's jobs report so
that jobs report is coming out in about
five minutes of course we'll be going
through that in detail let's see what we
have here jobs growth likely slowed in
March as rising interest rates
persistent inflation and growth fears
weighed on employer demand for workers a
Slowdown could Mark a steep or sorry a
step towards normal levels of growth for
the U.S jobs Market which has been
exceedingly tight for more than a year
but can it also but it could also
underscore that job creation remains
remarkably healthy even as other aspects
of the economy slow so the expectations
are that we've added 240 jobs 240k jobs
a thousand jobs uh that is the consensus
the fact set consensus that's down from
the 311 consensus and certainly down
from the uh the 311 consensus is the
pace that we've been on rather since
December
um and it is down from that that crazy
over 500 000 read that we got in January
economists also expect the unemployment
rate to Hold Steady at 3.6 so we'll see
investors and economists have been
expecting to see signs that the economy
has begun to deteriorate since the early
March uh collapse of Silicon Valley Bank
and signature while the jobs report for
March will be closely parsed for Clues
as to where the labor market was heading
is unlikely to show what impact the
banking terminals had yet yeah that's
true I I think there's a lot of fear
that the banking turmoil has done a lot
of a lot of damage to our economy I I'm
not convinced of that I'm not convinced
that the banking turmoil is necessarily
that tragic
for uh for our Market I I wonder if the
banking turmoil could be a little bit
more of a this is uh this is what
happens when rates rise quickly and the
riskiest of the banks unfortunately get
whacked and uh those are the risk
mitigation measures that each of the
companies need to uh need to implement
themselves and those were the choices
that signature and Silicon Valley Bank
made and unfortunately they paid the
price for it with a loss of a lot of
their share value and potentially their
jobs so
we'll see we will see everybody looks at
it a little bit differently everybody
thinks every single Bank should be
impervious to any kind of failure I
disagree with that uh it's entirely
possible that uh Yellen and Jerome and
Biden did the right thing for financial
stability but I'm not terribly convinced
uh so anyway
let's take a sip of coffee here and
prepare for the jobs report coming out
in two minutes
all right
they're trying to push cbdc's where they
can freeze and Claw back your value you
know I I disagree with that and I
appreciate you being a channel member
but In fairness I I disagree with that I
I I think cbdc's will come Central Bank
digital currency digital currencies and
I don't think they're going to be that
big of a deal I think people are making
them out to be so much more of a big
deal than they are I don't think they're
going to be any different really than
the US dollar I mean in theory if they
wanted to uh uh you know restrict your
access to the dollar they could do that
as well they could seize your bank
account just like they could potentially
do that so I I don't see how this is
very different than you having cash in a
bank
um so I I don't know you know and then
people are like oh but what about
privacy it's like well not really like
uh like that privacy uh is isn't a
problem as well already with your credit
card and your bank data like I just I
just don't see the convincing argument
as to why the Central Bank digital
currency is is different yes you can get
paid in cash but you can still get to
get paid in cash in the future too
nobody's saying cash is going away
they're just looking at it as a
supplement
so I'm not convinced of that it'll take
a little more time to convince me on
that all right let's get into this jobs
data
all right we are 30 seconds away from
jobs data changing non-farm payroll is
expected to be 230 000 down from the
prior of 300 and 11 000. we are looking
for private payrolls to come in at 218
prior 265. most important average hourly
earnings expecting it to come in at 0.3
uh and here we go okay we got 236 a
little above expectations uh we've got
0.3 for the month over month average
hourly earnings average year over year
earnings 4.2 uh so I would say 6 000
more jobs than expected on the uh the
headline read that actually dropped the
unemployment rate the unemployment rate
fell to 3.5 percent the uh this is good
the labor force participation rate
jumped up to 62.5
all right so this is uh this is not a
bad report it's not a fantastic report
I'd say it's a moderate report which is
actually kind of potentially good what
you want right now uh because you don't
want a horrible report suggesting we're
about to go into the hell of 2008 right
we've already got s p pmis and ISM pmis
that came in yesterday slightly
recessionary and people are starting to
get fearful that oh what if we're
walking into a recession we need to be
careful here so we have to be careful
what we wish for because if we keep
wishing for a recession then maybe
exactly that's or weak numbers then
maybe that's exactly what we're going to
get now the stock market is closed today
so measuring the response will be a
little interesting though I think we do
have Futures open so what what is
interesting here is this is a this is a
stable report however it does show that
decelerating Trend again we were at 311
uh last month now we're down at 236. the
fact that surveyors were within 6 000
jobs is actually pretty impressive given
that uh usually they're much more wrong
the average hourly earnings coming in at
0.3 as expected is fantastic that's a
sign that we are stable uh there is no
wage price spiral I've been pounding the
table on about no wage price spiral for
about six months though now so I I think
this is just sort of reiterating that
headline inflation for wage data at 4.2
so that's still Healthy Growth for wages
but by no means is it a sign that we are
having this sort of runaway inflation
which is uh which is a good side we do
not want to see runaway inflation let's
now go ahead and look at the actual
report itself so we've got the actual
report right here and let's see what
we're looking at so this is at the
employment situation keep in mind this
video is brought to you by short form go
to meet kevin.com short form to get
super powered book summaries at short
form it's very very cool check them out
at meet kevin.com I'm sorry short
form.com meet Kevin total non-farm
payroll 236 in March unemployment rate
little change that is down that 3.5 both
the unemployment rate and the number of
unemployed persons at 5.8 million
changed little in March little net
movement since early 2022 among the
major worker groups Hispanic
unemployment decreased to 4.6 percent
essentially offsetting an increase in
the prior month the unemployment rate
for adult men was three four adult women
3-1 teenagers nine eight women three two
blacks five Asian two eight you've got
uh permanent job losses did increase by
172 to 1.6 million in March the number
of re-entrants in the labor force
declined by 182 000 to 1.7 a million so
fewer uh re-entrants into the labor
force that's potentially a sign that
you're seeing fewer new hiring
re-entrants are persons who previously
worked but were not in the labor force
prior to the beginning their job short
search uh the number of long-term
unemployed those jobless for 27 weeks or
more was a little changed at 1.1 million
okay so little change in the long term
unemployed so despite all the those
massive layoffs were saying not seeing a
large take up here in the long-term
unemployed but then again the the job
losses that we've been seeing have
really only just started occurring so it
might be too early to see a change in
the long-term figure here
okay we've got labor force participation
rate continue to Trend up this is good
this is a sign that more people are
potentially coming off uh retirement or
off of uh unemployment checks uh right
or welfare and they're basically
re-entering the labor force which is
good although there are work
requirements for some of these jobs
covid has really made it easy to not
work the employment population ratio
itched up a little bit okay fine the
number of persons employed part-time for
economic reasons was essentially
unchanged so part-time unchanged I'm
really looking for differences here
inflection points the number of persons
not in the labor force Who currently
want a job little change at 4.9 million
fine uh we're also going to get wall
Street's reaction here in just a moment
to these numbers again so far I'd say
these numbers are pretty benign they're
not a sign that we're in a recession and
they are reiterating no wage price
spiral I personally actually think that
is the best case scenario that you could
wish for you don't want something Terror
terribly off expectations because then
it also casts more doubt on on
economists ability to do their job which
people already have little doubt in
anyway
you just don't need to amplify that even
before 1.3 million here for those
marginally attached to the labor force
also little changed the number of
marginally attached to the labor force
uh or discouraged workers basically
um little change 351. supplemental data
so the non-farm payroll increased 236
compared to the average monthly gain of
334 over the prior six months so that
gives you a sign of some weakness and
Trend in March employment continued to
Trend up in Leisure and Hospitality
government professional and business
services and Healthcare we'll look at
the tables in just a moment look at that
Leisure and Hospitality hotels Resorts
uh skiing restaurants whatever up 72 000
jobs in March that's a lower than the
average of 95 000 over the prior six
months so you are starting to get a
little bit of weakness uh in in this
finally a little bit of maybe turning
over a little bit of softening in the
job status but not depressive numbers of
jobs data that's good
employment and Leisure hospitality is
still below its pre-pandemic Levels by
368
000 and remember that's below levels
that's not below Trend that's important
think about that when they say that and
I think this is a very important
perspective and my goal on this channel
is always to teach perspectives that's
why I have entire courses on building
your wealth for teaching perspectives so
when when we have uh jobs data that uh
that shows Oh yay we have jobs growth
and then we have this big decline in
jobs data oh I accidentally unplugged
that uh and then all of a sudden we get
back to slightly below the level where
we were right so we're about negative
300 what was that 80 000 jobs or
something like that well that's that
might be almost back to 2019 levels but
what it's not is back to Trend levels
see at Trend levels you're probably down
about double that you probably still
have another 800 1000 jobs to go last
month we were down still about nine
hundred thousand jobs below trend for
leisure and Hospitality uh Health Care
is just back to 2019 levels uh and uh it
also below Trend so okay let's keep
going here government employment
increased forty seven thousand so the
government is employing I'm actually
surprised that you have Labor growth
over here in professional business
services up 39 000 that uh the trend
here is about thirty four thousand so
slightly above Trend over here in
professional business services slightly
surprised by that Daniel Dickinson here
says he's been laid off twice in Tech
once in 2008 and once in 2020 yikes uh
sorry to hear that it's always tough
layoffs suck Healthcare added 34 000
jobs lower than the trend of 80 or uh
fifty four thousand Social Services
continue to Trend up seventeen thousand
in March in March employment and
transportation warehousing changed
little uh 10 000 over you've got lot of
tension over here in warehousing oh
that's actually very interesting wait a
second warehousing and storage lost jobs
wait a second that's actually a really
big deal because
wow remember what we read yesterday
yesterday we started reading about this
and that was that as the economy weakens
I'll give you the quick synopsis on this
the state of freight as the economy
weakens what happens is more companies
leave their products sitting in
warehouses and now warehouses are full
we made this analogy yesterday of the
farmer basically filling up their Silo
and they could basically have a supply
glut a lot of supply and not put that on
the market because they're filling up
their Silo but now the silos are full
and the price is for new air housing are
going up and so what happens with a lag
well what happens with a lag is you get
a dump in prices people start dumping
their Supply because they don't want to
store it anymore well what did this jobs
report just do related to that well this
jobs report just told me this
warehouse and storages lost jobs that
actually reiterates the idea that there
is a lag in storage
a deflation basically and product
deflation let me let me simplify that
here so if I write this down here I'm
going to say if
let's set some conditions if uh we have
Supply Rising
then you'd assume warehousing would also
become more expensive and more would be
hired in warehousing right let's make
that a little smaller here there we go
that is what you would assume you always
have to be careful with assumptions
because you know what assumptions do
right they make an ass out of you and me
uh anyway so so this is interesting
because if we have more Supply then
there's more warehousing demand at first
but but at some point you face an
inflection and the inflection is where
people basically protest and say you
know what instead of storing even more
I'll just dump at lower prices uh or why
does it want to touch this it's
something so sensitive there we go you
have this dump at lower prices now
that's actually very interesting because
it suggests that we could be seeing more
price reductions sooner than we expect
what did we just get at Tesla we just
got two in a row price reduction on the
model S and X now I personally take no
responsibility for that but I will
continue to bag on the model S and X I
do not think they are worth it am I
really nervous about that they've
dropped prices on those twice no not at
all they don't really move the candle uh
compared to the model 3 and Y sales uh
but it's a sign that this is what
businesses do as inventory piles up you
cut prices that's totally normal and
seeing now a softening in uh in
warehousing that is actually just what
we want to see that's exactly what we
want to see to suggest that deflationary
prices are coming so I'm excited about
that okay let's continue on here so
warehousing a little change uh or well
slightly negative they're calling it
little changed uh but again it's also
not skyrocketing because people aren't
building new warehouses employment and
Retail trade has little changed it's
negative 15 000 job losses building
material garden equipment minus nine
thousand Furniture Home Furnishings down
nine thousand partially offset by job
gains in department stores plus fifteen
thousand retail trade employment little
changed over the year employment showed
little change over a in in over the
month in other Industries including
mining gas extraction manufacturing
wholesale and otherwise here's that
average hourly earnings point three
percent that's very good average work
week for all employees edged down uh
this is it's good that we're not seeing
a massive plummet in this but I will say
this average hourly work week this has
been teetering for months now it's been
up and then down it's been up and then
down so I really don't see it as that
big of a deal to continue to look at the
average hourly early hours week average
hours worked in a week don't see that as
that big of a deal uh bobbing up and
down a tenth year or there that could
honestly just be survey based so uh
let's see if we can get into some of the
tables and see what we have for the
please and if we can get a little bit
more granular into the data I do think
overall this is an optimistic report let
me see if there what how the bond market
is reacting to this so if we jump into
the bond market
we're looking at let's see here okay
we've got uh Dow futures basically the
stock market's flat Dow futures up about
a tenth of a percent Nasdaq futures up
0.9 uh sorry uh s p Futures at 0.9 0.09
you've got Nasdaq futures basically flat
at uh 0.04 now uh you might be wondering
wait a minute Kevin how are Futures up
when the stock market is closed well
folks the stock market might be closed
but that doesn't mean future Traders or
weenie babies who take every day off
that they want I'm just kidding I don't
want to offend the stock market people I
actually really like the stock market
folks and I really don't do anything
with Futures so what am I doing here I'm
like betraying my side supposed to enjoy
your day off and your time with family
or something I don't know go enjoy
Easter
um or whatever it is you celebrate I
don't know what else happens in Easter
Passover there's other stuff anyway okay
so uh that's the um and I appreciate you
being here either way okay that's the uh
Bond okay wait sorry that's the stock
market let's look at bonds so bonds
actually Rising slightly so you've got
the 10-year popping up to about
3.355 now that's actually a good sign
that we're sitting closer to stability
rather than a recessionary impact which
that's a very good uh so I like to see
that we do not want recessionary now let
me see five-year break evens have
modified at all and then we'll get into
some of the tables here
so
five year break even
all right five year break evens
so far are uh sitting roughly stable
although they may give me an update here
within the next two minutes here so so
far those stable but let's go ahead and
look at some of the charts that we have
Shelby so in order to do this we are
going to click a few buttons here there
we go button number one button number
two fantastic fantastic all right so
this gives us the unemployment rate
let's go through some of these others
here let's look at the household survey
as well just to compare actually that
would be a good idea let's jump over
here let's look at what the household
report is saying today
so household data
uh let's see the household I'm trying
they don't show us the actual number
where is the number in the household
that okay also go to the table table
Alpha for that okay no problem I will do
that
by
let's get back in over here then
all right so let's see here
they don't break it up as easily as
you'd think here to get the difference
between the household and the payroll
survey but I will grab it I want you to
keep in mind the difference between the
two the uh household survey is uh when
when they call actual individuals right
they call individual people and they say
hey are you uh employed right now and if
you have multiple jobs you're discounted
as one person whereas the payroll survey
calls businesses which does create a
potential for double counting uh
individuals and if you double count
individuals then you might have a little
bit of a misleading result
so uh it looks like the household survey
moved
wow that's actually a pretty large move
here the household survey went
up 577 thousand
so 577 000 move in the household survey
compared to a 236
000 job in the job move in the payrolls
data this is likely because the
household survey has been very volatile
and trying to play catch-up to the
actual payrolls uh uh survey so I don't
necessarily see that as bad but is
substantially higher than the 177 we had
for households last time uh and then a
little lower than well actually a bit
lower than the 894 we had in January for
the households so I think you are seeing
some of that households catch up oh
that's not very entertaining what is you
there we go let's get back to some
charts over here silly
silly HDMI cables all right let's keep
going here
so let's look at this so we could take a
look at some charts I want to see
particularly if there are any
interesting ones here this will give you
the average
hours worked for different groups here
I'd love to see if we can get a little
granular in this this is manufacturing
so we could see manufacturing hours
worked declining off of those Peaks that
we saw in 2021 uh that's good durable
goods nice decline there as well those
are going to be like appliances uh or
other equipment
let's try computer and electronic
manufacturing also rotating down let's
go with apparel apparel actually up look
at that apparel manufacturing at a high
right now
shout out to those Nike and Lulu folks
paper manufacturing do we really care I
mean we're not printing money anymore so
that number's going down let's go with
Machinery Manufacturing
down on Machinery manufacturing uh how
about Appliance and electronic equipment
also rotating down and then Furniture
over here let's see furniture
and make it a little challenging to use
this chart there's Furniture seems
roughly stable all right any other
particular employment let's try
employment by industry let's take a look
at this chart
all right so let's jump into
Construction
okay and let's take away the totals
there we go look at that construction
nice rise here been very consistent
maybe just topping out there on the
right maybe a little bit of a topping
out Leisure and Hospitality just so you
can see the trend that is a terrible
color also nice Trend directly up how
about professional business services
yeah a little bit of a lower slower
inflection inflection point there so a
little bit of a Slowdown Financial
activities this is where you're really
seeing the uh a little bit of the
Slowdown you're actually getting that
negative inflection point all right
let's get it Information Technology
Information Technology also seeing that
inflection to the downside let's get uh
hmm how about just government in general
that's not too useful let's take a look
here and not very useful at all okay
Manufacturing
and let's get rid of government and
financial activities and just look at
Manufacturing
okay we can't
let's try again if we do this there we
go there's your manufacturing also
hitting sort of a
resistance level there if you will on
manufacturing it doesn't seem like a
construction is hitting that level
though is it yeah barely I mean maybe
just beginning but I think the charts
are somewhat useful in taking a little
bit of a glance at what's happening so
let's take a look at some of the Q and A
that we have I want to see what y'all
are thinking here
uh Tesla nominates former Texas JB
strawberry isn't he also on um uh over
at Redwood material I think so so let's
see here
while not our favorite scenario could
there be a silver lining with
stagflation I actually think this is
potentially a a good scenario that this
is a I would not call this an
unfavorable scenario I'm optimistic
about this this is a an at an at
expectations read I mean look at what we
have no wage price spiral as we've been
reiterating and optimism around maybe
the economy isn't doing that horribly I
think as as uh investors a lot of folks
right now are of the mindset that we are
likely to be looking at a a terrible uh
economy and another 2008 that's that's
certainly a concern that a lot of folks
have and we'll go ahead and look at some
other reports as well but um yeah I'm
not that pessimistic Maybe
a developer let's see uh
yeah
you built on a swamp last fall yikes I
guess everything in western Florida is
built on a swamp though
so okay so I think that does it for uh
for a job segment let's go jump into uh
another uh piece and this piece that I
found I thought was quite interesting it
it talks about this idea of uh the the
next cycle being quite different
also let me see something here trying to
see folks is there on your screen a
flicker on the camera just curious if
there is a flicker on your on your
screen for what you're seeing and then
let's get into some other research and
headlines
uh okay so let's get this in here
one second
transition over
okay now we're gonna call this this
cycle is different no no flick oh good
okay fantastic then it's just on the
preview that I'm seeing which is quite
annoying
but uh that's okay
let's jump on it too this cycle
very much appreciate y'all all right
let's go into this piece uh next piece
here
so the next piece is
uh right over here it pushes this button
and this button
well folks in this next piece we're
going to talk about this TS Lombard
argument that how is this cycle
different and every time we hear this
time is different we want to be nervous
but what they're actually saying is Tech
that's the only thing that's different
about this cycle what they discuss is
this argument that this cycle is
different because in every down cycle
there is a poster child for what got
overbuilt distorted and basically
bubbled up and this time Tia slombard
argues it's hex term it happens every
cycle an industry convincing themselves
and investors that they are a growth
industry immune to economic cycles and
then discovering they are after all a
cyclical business which means you are
affected by the business cycle after all
commercial real estate here is
potentially another obvious problem and
a coming issue for banks given that
Banks hold 50 percent of commercial
mortgages specifically the small ones
relative to the the smallers I'm sorry
the the larger Banks hold about seven
percent commercial mortgages it's the
Smalls and needs medium medium-sized
banks that have more of exposure here as
far as inflation high prices as opposed
to the rate of change needed to reverse
some of the items for consumers to gain
loss spending power blah blah okay if
not so let's make this clear as for
inflation high price levels as opposed
to the rate of change need to reverse
for for some items for consumers to
regain lost spending power in other
words what they're saying is
this time in this recession Tech is
potentially most exposed to a tech Crush
now it could be argued that that's
already happened but they're saying that
even if inflation goes away prices are
now so much higher right remember if you
paid a hundred dollars for a piece of
tech that now costs a hundred and twenty
dollars you have experienced 20
inflation over a certain period of time
be that one year two years six months
whatever
and if inflation now goes away you're
still at 120 you have a zero percent
rate of inflation but you're still
paying more money what does that mean
that means individual people have had
their purchasing power their pricing
power reduced
and in order to regain pricing power you
might need to see wages go up however
we're not seeing wages go up in the form
of say a wage price spiral and if we are
not seeing wages go up and prices are
higher then people can simply afford
less stuff now an argument is being made
that today we have plenty of excess
savings still yes yes it is true that
not only do we have a lower savings rate
now than we did before the pandemic that
is true but we have a higher base of
savings remember what Bank of America
told us last month somebody with five
thousand dollars in their bank account
before the pan uh yeah before actually
the pandemic now sit somewhere at a 12
900 to 13 900 of extra cash but what
happens when that is spent
are we in a deep dark recession or have
we finally conquered inflation Jerome
Palace done with his rate hikes and we
can go back to the Glorious Bull Run of
the 2010-2019 cycle some people say
that's delusional other people say no
that's actually entirely what could
happen but let's see what TS Lombard
argues the coming reversal in credit
expectations will also help lower
inflation by pulling down service price
inflation so in other words less credit
less service inflation great but what
they see coming will be a downturn with
a recession that ends up correcting the
excesses of 2010 to 2019 specifically
Tech and asset values not simply a
correction of the post covet boom now
this is fascinating because this is
actually a Peter schiffian argument
Peter Schiff has argued that we are not
going through a crash of the Covenant be
printing we are actually repaying the
debts of the bubble we created post
2008. T.S Lombard is now echoing the
Peter schiffian argument
and folks that is one that could that
should create nervousness
now how could asset values go down well
let me make this argument in regards to
real estate so a lot of people obviously
you know this already well most of you
do but some people don't obviously uh
for those of you don't I'll explain I'm
a licensed financial advisor but I
started in real estate that's very rare
it's very rare that you have somebody go
uh from from Real Estate brokering to
financial advising this video is in
personalized Financial advice because of
course I don't know you
um but but when I look at this I think I
I try to look at what's going on in the
economy from from both sides I try to do
the same thing in politics as well it's
very difficult because obviously
divisive videos do much better
but what I think is fascinating is this
potential that real estate
may not necessarily rebound immediately
if rates drop we have this expectation
that the Bull Run of real estate will
continue if interest rates drop but what
might also happen if interest rates drop
the people who have refused to sell
might think oh well interest rates are
lower now now is a good time for me to
move and sell my property or maybe I'll
get a higher price because interest
rates are lower but if everybody thinks
that inventory bubbles up and you could
actually then have substantially more
inventory than you previously had in the
last eight years frankly certainly
during the pandemic and if you have to
adjust to a higher level of inventory
that it doesn't matter if rates go down
you could actually see a real estate
crush and you could see that same real
estate Crush in residential which could
just be Amplified by a similar Crush
that you see in commercial real estate
so I think patience in real estate is
very Prudence right now don't get me
wrong I I my goal with my real estate
startup is to create a a 10 to 100
billion dollar company uh with house
hack I could not be more enthused uh
about the path and trajectory we're on
uh so I'm very excited about that but I
am also having to be very cognizant of
where are the potential black swans
individuals aren't paying attention to
so I run those scenarios through my head
and this TS Lombard piece evokes some of
those potential fears uh now that's not
to say it's oh fud fear uncertainty
doubt it's this is this is a a real
argument
so uh as uh Daniel here says in the chat
patience is a virtue I completely agree
uh and and maybe it could be considered
a normalization right all right so
um there's a little bit of a preview
they give here on jobs but we've already
gone through the job stat up mostly at
expectations here now I think this is
very interesting they show a confirmed
weakness in White Collar hiring and they
use this to basically say well the tech
sector is far from being relative to the
entire economy remember you could lay
off the entire
Silicon Valley Bay Area and only affect
three percent of jobs so while the tech
areas far from being relative to the
entire economy it has been on the margin
an important driver of overall growth
hiring and spending and a source of
income from the financial sector as well
as investment wealth when the tech
sector booms you have people who build
their wealth and when people build their
wealth what happens people can spend
more on services or going on holiday
going on vacation right holiday sorry I
was talking to some Europeans yesterday
and that's how they say it I am after
all European I was born in Germany but I
consider myself an American I've been
here since I was what 13 months old
somewhere between 13 and 18 months old
nobody seems to know
anyway Tech employment increases 60
since 2009. look at that difference that
actually gives you a a a a showing here
look at this two things here
non-public Tech firms uh net worth
versus uh non non-financial corporate
Tech X real estate so
non-financial core this is a little bit
confusing let's look at this chart
instead I'm not going to try to
understand that one your live we'll
we'll understand this one together High
Tech versus uh the private sector
excluding Leisure and hospitality and
social services so that would be private
sector jobs could be like manufacturing
uh PC repair
um to some extent that could be really
any local business that is outside of
tech and what you're finding is this
large wedge here between 2009 and 2022
where you've seen a boom in in hiring
for Tech relative to other sectors
commercial real estate obvious problem
notably The Leverage in large offices
yeah and and we realized this already
that JPMorgan just mentioned the other
day that we could be seeing a 350 to 400
billion dollar hit from commercial
mortgages I was just talking to a a
another financial advisor yesterday and
they see
uh a potential we they see BlackRock
liquidating a substantial amount of
mortgage-backed Securities and the
liquidation of that could lead to the
selling of a substantial amount of real
estate assets we shall see commercial
real estate debt has been less of a
problem than it was in the 90s
commercial real estate recession over
here so you have less of a problem out
here in terms of commercial mortgages
outstanding in total uh and then you
could see that commercial real estate
held by Banks has been slightly trending
up versus non-banks the large banks have
been heavily moving into commercial real
estate whereas the non-large bank
lenders have been helping people with
30-year fixed rate mortgages these are
going to be your mortgage brokers your
direct lenders your UWM your rocket
mortgage and otherwise
uh dollars downward impact not finished
yet I actually believe that I think that
the dollar is likely to continue to fall
and uh that's why I started by taking a
short position last summer in the dollar
and uh I'm not short the dollar right
now anymore but I do think there's still
some move down uh potentially in the
dollar specifically as yields fall
remember as yields full People's
desirability or interest in the US
dollar declines and that's because we
need the dollar in order to buy uh of
quote unquote safe assets like
treasuries and so uh the more yields are
high on our Ultra safe potentially the
safest asset in the world products the
more we end up with a demand for our
dollars that drives our dollar up
so
you know
is take a listen over to CNBC so we'll
close off this section here uh let's do
a summary I suppose on TS Lombard I
guess the summer here would be is it
possible that if we combine this summary
uh let's think about it this way
combine this information from TS Lombard
with what the international monetary
fund said this morning that we could be
going into a five-year slowdown and what
do you face well you face an environment
where potentially you could have a
repayment or session of the bubble of
2009 to 2010's bull market and you could
have a five-year Slow blow recession
with a real estate slowdown over the
next five years
and in my opinion the next five years if
we have a slower recovery and we do not
simply Resort back to the excesses of
the 2010 to 2019 cycle I believe the
next five years would actually be a
glorious opportunity
to build your asset base think about it
what you want is your assets to be
massive in the future and if you
potentially invested in let's say
pricing power stocks today which got us
through the next five years and then we
went back into a bull run where credit
started expanding again rather than
tightening and real estate really
started recovering again
maybe you could set yourself up pretty
well by working hard over the next five
years and making sure you have as much
available Capital now that's something
we regularly talk about in the course
member live streams which I encourage
you to check out link down below you get
lifetime access to those courses under
building your wealth and of course you
can use the coupon code that next
expires which means the price will be
going up on the 12th of April which is a
week from today when we will be covering
uh actually it's not a week from the day
it's actually only five days from today
when we will be covering the CPI release
and that's why we're creating the honor
of the CPI coupon code 69 off prices did
take up a little bit from the last time
and they will take up again after this
coupon expires and you can now use buy
now pay later to join
all right so that ends this segment on
potentially this uh what should we call
it the uh the IMF bear Market
so I'm a fair market let's take a listen
to CFC uh CNBC has any coverage today
given that even though the market is
open I expect they will but they seem to
be uncommercial right now so let's see
if this suits have anything to say about
this jobs report five year Break Even
index uh still holding stable
so that somewhat implies stability
uh Market okay here we go Friday's
employment report ended up coming in
pretty close to public published
consensus
while a weak number would have been
would have cemented the end of the fed's
psych uh fed's tightening cycle this
figure keeps the door ajar for another
hike
particularly if the CPI report surprises
to the upside yeah I completely agree
with that
I agree with that let's see how the
treasure yields are holding up now
Nasdaq futures even though the stock
market will be closed today positive
and if we jump over to bonds
we're up about six basis points on the
10-year so relative stability I'd say
that's a good thing
all right
and it doesn't I don't think CNBC
actually has their show up today so we
won't be popping up over there
let's do a slight bit of q a here with
uh the blue chat and green chat group
by the way you could be in the blue chat
group if you're a course member
you get those in the course Memory live
streams
uh what about renters being evicted yes
that's uh entirely a possibility that we
could go through an eviction cycle
absolutely I wasn't a homeowner over the
time but I believe it was Zero interest
they just checked in let's see you're
talking about deferments yeah now I'm
not so worried about the deferments for
mortgages given that people can now
adjust into a potentially a 40-year
mortgage to make sure they could stay
within their homes
a lot of people are pretty frustrated by
that but
personally I actually like the 40-year
mortgage
we can do a piece on that
yeah
how can we structure a piece on the
40-year mortgage let's see here
I sorry I need a better table so I can
have a place to put this microphone
let's see here
can I do this
no jerks all right let's run by yeah
generally it's difficult to calculate a
four-year mortgage because most
calculators don't do it 40 years
but I can make one really quick
and then we can talk about it
um let's grab just a regular template
and then adjust it
okay
let's see got it okay so the 40-year
mortgage would be
in 40 years times 12 480 months
okay
mortgage length
got it okay fantastic
actually this does sort of let me play
with it oh that's fantastic
okay
interest
all right let's play with this because
it should be pretty fun
monthly data
cumulative interest
oh I love these charts
okay
let's do this together
okay stand by
there we go
30 seconds here
okay
so recently there's been a lot of
trending talk on and other than a
Twitter about the 40-year mortgage and
basically people are starting to
circulate this conversation over oh my
gosh people are going to get 10-year car
loans and then they're going to get
40-year mortgages what's next 100 year
mortgages 20-year car loans heck you
know what let's take the logical fallacy
of the slippery slope argument and say
we're going to have a 30-year fixed rate
mortgage on a car and that car which is
a Toyota Camry is now going to cost you
two hundred thousand dollars
well folks generally I despise Twitter
that it has nothing to do with Elon Musk
obviously you know I'm an Elon Musk fan
it has to do with the fact that
generally generally the highest quality
information on social media folds to the
bottom whereas the most invigorating and
emotionally creative byline is what gets
everybody's attention it's the same
thing on YouTube I mean you should know
this by now the headlines have to be
Jazzy and snazzy otherwise people aren't
interested if you don't have a snazzy
headline nobody clicks and then nobody
can get the perspective that actually
matters for example yesterday and then
we're going to talk about this 40-year
mortgage for example yesterday I suited
up and I went on mainstream television I
hopped on none other than everyone's
favorite channel on the left and
everyone's hated channel on the right
Newsmax okay obviously I purposefully
flipped that but yeah I went on
newsbanks I talked to Sean Spicer he's
talking to me about the following of the
dollar because that's more bait that's
going on right now and I'm like dude if
you're buying assets it doesn't matter
and they're like wait we didn't even
think about that you're saying we could
just buy real estate to stocks bonds or
gold or whatever some kind of asset and
then not even have to worry about what
our asset is denominated in
yes but you don't generally find that
headline or that body line because it's
not sexy so anyway
as much drama as there is going on
around this 40-year mortgage the 40-year
mortgage for a real estate perspective
would actually be a godsend for Real
Estate Investors specifically not for
big corporate landlords because big
corporate landlords are not going to get
access to these 40-year mortgages
specifically for you so let's take a
piece out of the Playbook of the uh you
know zero to millionaire uh course on
building your wealth right why do I have
a course on building your wealth the
zero to millionaire well I do there's a
coupon code linked down below you can
now use buy now pay later for because I
truly believe that every one of you can
become a millionaire through real estate
you have to buy property and hold
property now generally what people do is
they go to a mortgage calculator and
they say well but Kevin
if I take a 40-year mortgage I'm going
to pay a lot more interest over time and
that is true let's go ahead and do a
little calculation and uh see how much
more interest you would be paying and
then let's talk about maybe why this
just isn't what it seems so let's uh
grab the the uh a share screen here
specifically on uh this uh this mortgage
calculator and what we're going to do is
we're going to calculate first the
difference in payment uh between what we
would expect for a 30-year mortgage but
then also what we would expect for a
40-year mortgage and we're going to
compare total interest paid and then
what we're going to do is uh we're going
to ask okay well why would we ever want
to pay more why would we do that we
would want to pay less right isn't the
goal to minimize the amount of interest
that we're paying
and the answer to that is not
necessarily it depends on what we are
doing with our currency otherwise with
our cash so let's go through some of the
numbers here so first some of the
numbers let's look at a 350 000 purchase
price you know what let's bump that to
450 000 let's get with a more normalized
uh house here and let's go with a more
normal interest rate today obviously
we're probably looking at about a six
and a half percent interest rate I
generally don't advise buying right now
and I don't think anybody actually
expects we're going to see a six and a
half percent interest rate for the long
term so let's go ahead with what I dealt
with a lot in 2000 or so a lot in 2009
at 10. when I started in the real estate
business bottom of the market basically
and it was when the market was still
falling when I got in uh so we were
trending towards the bottom four and a
half percent let's assume that you're
not going to buy until rates are four
and a half percent or your average is
going to be four and a half percent if
you buy now and refinance later and
let's do a typical
15-year mortgage to go extreme here your
payment in this scenario with 10 percent
down on a 450 000 house four and a half
percent rate is about three thousand one
hundred dollars now that is not your
total payment for this property because
remember your total payment is actually
going to be made up of something known
as p i t i so that is going to be
principal interest taxes insurance and
then you have if you have the pleasure
of also having HOA dues you can uh you
could throw those down so let's just put
PI right here and usually we I separate
p and I but just to make things a little
easier right now we'll just grab the
total right here and then we're going to
go get our taxes and unless you live in
the state of Texas you're probably going
to be sitting somewhere around 1.2
percent on an annualized basis so we're
going to divide that figure by 12. there
we go and let's make sure we have our
parentheses in the correct places there
we go now here's the magic of this
little Fun hack your property taxes on a
monthly basis are usually just the
purchase price minus three digits yeah
mind-blowing hack there eh
uh I I love little hacks in real estate
I teach endless hacks in the real estate
zero to millionaire course link down
below okay then Insurance let's go with
about 75 now obviously this is going to
get adjusted if you're and let's say you
have no HOA because everybody hates
let's say you are
um not you know in a flood zone where
your insurance could be 275 dollars and
let's say you're not in Texas where your
property taxes could be doubled
and if this is your payment for this
property is now
3623 now this is actually a little bit
problematic because if we want your
front end ratio don't worry you don't
have to know what that means if we want
your front end ratio for this property
to be 30 uh you know what I'll be
generous I'll go with 35 well then your
monthly income before we even consider
any of your other debts in your debt to
income your your monthly income is going
to have to be somewhere around ten
thousand three hundred dollars to afford
this property or one hundred twenty four
thousand dollars uh and this also
assumes that you have saved up about
forty five thousand dollars plus closing
costs so you're probably going to be
sitting somewhere around fifty thousand
dollars now
okay well uh that's going to be a little
bit of an oof eh because not a lot of
people make a hundred twenty four
thousand dollars uh but your total uh
interest paid over the life of the loan
in this scenario would be uh let's go
over here 180 that's your 15 year your
total interest paid would be 152.6 and
your total principal payment would be
405. so let's add a 405 plus one five
two point six your total paid for this
home would be sitting at
557.6 if you held it uh to the to the 15
in 15 years right
so that is how much you've actually paid
for the property if you held this loan
to maturity
fine okay now let's change these numbers
a little bit let's go with a 30-year
fixed rate mortgage and now we're going
to leave most of the other numbers the
same uh however look at your ability
your the necessity of qualifying how
that's just changed let's actually write
it down and you need let's write down
need
124 000 of income
4K income to qualify
all right now let's change this again to
your typical 30-year fixed rate mortgage
at four and a half percent and in this
case you need
88.3 or 88.3 thousand dollars to qualify
for this 450 000 home now if you keep
this to maturity
you're going to be paying somewhere
around 738
000 for this house
738
000 in 30 years is how much you're going
to be paying for this house over that
lifetime okay now let's go with a
40-year mortgage
so 40-year mortgage oh and your payment
dropped too what was it your payment was
two thousand fifty two dollars so in
this case you had a 25.57 payment so
you'd have a payment would be here the
payment would be
33.6 K here the payment would be about a
2.6 K payment and then now your payment
would be about 20 52. oh no it would be
a little higher hold on the 2.6 is with
the yeah that's with the 30 year okay
let's drop this to 40. there we go 1821
brings you to about 2.3 okay 2.3 K
payment you would only need 80.4 K to
qualify so about 10 percent less income
to qualify
and your total over that period of time
paid for the property would actually be
800 and about seventy four thousand
dollars
eight hundred and seventy four thousand
dollars so now we look at this and what
do we first see when we look at this the
first thing we do is we say oh my gosh
in order to qualify with lower income uh
needing just 80 000 of income so
basically a third less from 124 over
here oh what we're doing is we're making
housing more affordable this is true
you're making housing more affordable
but in order to make that housing more
affordable you're actually raising how
much money people are paying over time
right
not necessarily and so from a real
estate investor point of view the real
estate investor is almost always going
to choose the 40-year mortgage if they
have that option wait a minute Kevin why
would an investor pay more money that
doesn't make sense investors usually
want less money out all right well not
necessarily uh not necessarily because
what you're doing over here to an
investor is you're changing the cash
flow and the leveraged appreciation
factor for the property right and so
take a look at this if this property
rents for three thousand dollars a month
that's the rent
well then and then we add in Property
Management expenses well over here you
would be sitting at a negative cash flow
on the 15-year mortgage you'd be having
a negative cash flow of somewhere around
uh three four five six hundred dollars
so you'd be negative six hundred dollars
per month on the 30 year you'd be
positive 200 a month and on the 40-year
mortgage your cash flow uh would end up
factoring in about this 200 in Property
Management expenses would be around 450
so you'd have higher cash flow which
actually because this is a fixed rate
loan means you would have more risk with
the 15-year loan but on top of that you
have leveraged appreciation right so
consider now that you're paying this uh
this property down uh with less of an
outlay every single year on an annual
basis you're putting into the property
with the 40-year mortgage you're putting
in 23.45 times 12 you're putting in
about twenty eight thousand dollars or
going into this property on the 30-year
mortgage uh rough math here you're
putting in about thirty one thousand two
hundred dollars into the property and on
the 15-year mortgage you're putting in
about forty three thousand two hundred
dollars okay but now if you had
appreciation long run appreciation of
let's say three percent you could even
do the math with two percent if you want
but if you had appreciation of three
percent let's just say given that this
is leveraged appreciation as well it's
quite fantastic but anyway we'll talk
about that leverage in a moment well
anyway
um four hundred fifty thousand dollars
450 000 times appreciation of three
percent gives you about thirteen
thousand five hundred dollars right so
you've got about thirteen thousand five
hundred dollars of of uh appreciation
here
but now consider what you've actually
put into the property the total you've
put into the property where you put in
about 50 to buy it right so you put 50
in to buy it uh let's move this to here
you put in 50 to buy it your actual cost
of the property since your your cash
flow offsets how much you're really
putting into it right here right uh your
your cash flow here so how much are you
actually putting in 600 times 12 net net
your net into this property 7 200 offset
by your appreciation 13 500 plus 7200
not even considering principal pay down
right not even considering principal pay
down here your net worth is up 6 300
bucks on the property just considering
cash flow leveraged appreciation uh and
that folks is on fifty thousand dollars
so if we divide this number here
by fifty thousand dollars we're looking
at a 12.6 irr okay but let's do that
over here well now we have 200 of cash
flow plus the appreciation so 200 a
monthly cash flow that gives us twenty
four hundred dollars a year plus
thirteen five hundred of appreciation on
the property fifteen nine now we've
actually gained our net worth by fifteen
nine we're trying to leveraged
appreciation point of view is actually
now 31.8 percent off ten percent down it
gets ridiculous when you only put 10
down but it shows you how remarkable
that leverage appreciation can be and it
does get that ridiculous this is why
buying your home is so phenomenal uh and
leveraging for as long as possible with
a fixed rate loan is so incredible but
now let's go ridiculous here and let's
take a 450 and this assumes you live
there for the first year and rent it out
thereafter right five thousand four
hundred dollars
plus leverage depreciation of Thirteen
thousand five hundred dollars eighteen
thousand nine hundred dollars
into fifty thousand dollars
is a 37.8 rate of return uh that's your
irr for the first few years right now
that irr goes down as you then reapply
that to your next year of the net worth
that you're into the property right
because for the second year that you're
into the property now you're into the
property fifty thousand dollars plus
that eighteen thousand nine hundred
dollars of wealth that you've created
but you can also be ridiculous here and
you could offset this by principal pay
down every month you're paying down
another 300 bucks in principle on the
40-year mortgage so you could be even
more ridiculous over here the point is
what if when you're leveraging real
estate you tend to have a much higher
internal rate of return than your
interest rate
and so when we look at the time value of
money and this is where I'm going to
sort of summarize this uh and make this
a little bit more clear because I know
sometimes it can be a little confusing
when we look at the time value of money
if your internal rate of return exceeds
the interest rate that you're paying
you should always make that choice
because your Net Present Value which is
just a finance way of saying uh it is a
good decision your net present value is
positive when your net present value is
positive you win and you want to do more
of that think about that if you're
paying a fixed interest rate of four
percent but you're actually earning
five percent on your money well that
generally gives you a net positive of
half a percent that might not be worth
it right but if you have an internal
rate of return of 12 because you
continue reinvesting into real estate
you continue buying rental property
which you can do an internal rate of
return of 12 is pretty realistic in real
estate no company can guarantee that to
you but it's pretty realistic because
what you do over time to repeat the
process is you continue to refinance as
you have sort of longer term leverage
appreciation you refinance you buy
another rental property how can you add
fuel to this fire and potentially look
at a 15 16 17 or more rate of return you
buy wedge deals you buy a wedge deal you
finance properties for the long term you
get leveraged appreciation and a wedge
deal over the long term your interests
your your net present value is
substantially higher than the interest
you're paying on the loan so anybody who
simplistically tells you that oh well
you're actually paying more for the
property Kevin why are you paying more
for the property well it's because the
government is trying to screw you
they're trying to get you to pay more to
the banks first of all that's a lie you
don't pay this interest to the banks
like people need to wake up and realize
this money doesn't go to the banks this
interest you're paying goes to
mortgage-backed security holders
not the banks no yes a lot of banks hold
mortgage-backed Securities but guess who
holds most mortgage-backed securities
individuals Pension funds other
individuals big Banks right now the
biggest banks Chase JP Morgan Chase Bank
of America they hold like seven percent
uh of their balance sheet and Commercial
mortgage-backed Securities it's nominal
most mortgage-backed Securities are held
uh not by large institutions but the
interest you're paying is in the bank
it's the mortgage-backed security holder
that's important to remember but beyond
that it doesn't really matter whom
you're trying to stick it to by paying
lower interest this is the flawed number
to look at looking at your total
interest paid is the wrong Financial
metric for evaluating whether what
you're doing is a good decision or a bad
decision uh and unfortunately that's
because in America and widely around the
world most people have not uh been
taught true financial analysis and uh
anybody who and I want you to think
about it this web
anybody who says oh my gosh you're going
to be paying X dollars over the life of
that loan for an appreciating asset like
real estate
is missing the point of how wonderful
real estate is they don't understand
real estate investing so when I see that
drama on Twitter I just laugh and it
helps me realize we are going to be able
to create a multi-billion dollar company
because people just don't realize uh how
simple and easy real estate is
now that's different for a car of course
should cars have a 10-year mortgage no
you should buy a used car and pay it off
in cash it's totally different very very
very different
now some people are like deeps here in
the chat is questioning uh appreciation
versus uh inflation generally real
estate appreciates at a higher rate than
the rate of inflation but at bare
minimum you're protected uh from
inflation with owning real estate
generally not this hyperinflation that
we've seen in this last cycle but
generally long-term average inflation we
tend to be protected by owning assets
uh and uh and then of course you know
when people say oh what about the
maintenance of a property well I just
that's purposefully why I built in an
additional 200 uh per month for uh
maintenance and management uh especially
if you manage the properties yourself I
mean think about it twenty four hundred
dollars buys you a new furnace every
year at twenty four hundred dollars for
four years buys you a new roof twenty
four hundred dollars buys you five new
stoves for just one year it buys you two
new water heaters you see what I'm
saying like you can maintain a property
on a 2400 budget per month so that's not
terribly unrealistic I already built
that in
so the beautiful thing now uh what you
can do is you could use buy now pay
later to join the programs on building
your wealth link down below use that
coupon code before April 12th when the
coupon code will be expiring
so one positive dude says a 20 a 40-year
mortgage will take you 25 years to pay
more principal and interest who cares
that does not matter in fact most
sophisticated investment investors don't
pay any principal on their real estate
they actually take an interest-only Loan
in other words by taking an
interest-only loan you're not actually
doing a 30-year mortgage or 15-year
mortgage or a 40-year mortgage guess
what you're signing up for you're
signing up for an infinite mortgage why
do you think investors do interest-only
loans because they don't want to pay off
the debt paying off principal is not the
best use of capital it increases your
safety net the paying off principle is
not the best use of capital if you're
putting your hat on actually telling
yourself that you're going to hold a
loan for more than three to five years
you're somebody who's either facing
retirement or not financially literate
in real estate and that's okay that's
not designed to be offensive it's just
designed to be be realistic most people
refinance after three to five years and
they reset the amortization schedule
anyway somebody who says they're going
to hold a 30-year mortgage for 15 years
so they can finally start paying off
more principal and interest actually I
think that flip point is somewhere
around year 11. they're lying to
themselves they're not they're going to
refinance now hopefully they don't
refinance and buy garbage like a boxable
or an RV which is basically the same
thing or or spend money on a vacation uh
which I'm a big fan of spending money on
vacations just don't think you should
refinance your house to do that uh you
know that's that's financially
illiterate so nobody ever holds a loan
to the full term that's stupid it's
stupid to do that unless you're retired
if you were going into retirement you
are a different you're in a different
situation if you're growing your wealth
you don't hold your loan to term if you
are going into retirement you should pay
off your debts you should pay off
everything get a 15-year mortgage make
an extra payment make an extra two
payments a year pay that sucker off as
much as possible because you want to go
into retirement you want dividend stocks
and pay off your loans but if you're
trying to build your wealth you don't
build your wealth with a 15-year loan
and making extra payments that's
nonsense
so rant over thank you so very much for
being here I appreciate you all I will
be leaving now goodbye
