so recently there's been a lot of
trending talk on and other than a
Twitter about the 40-year mortgage and
basically people are starting to
circulate this conversation over oh my
gosh people are going to get 10-year car
loans and then they're going to get
40-year mortgages what's next 100 year
mortgages 20-year car loans heck you
know what let's take the logical fallacy
of the slippery slope argument and say
we're going to have a 30-year fixed rate
mortgage on a car and that car which is
a Toyota Camry is now going to cost you
two hundred thousand dollars well folks
generally I despise Twitter that it has
nothing to do with Elon Musk obviously
you know I'm an Elon Musk fan it has to
do with the fact that generally
generally the highest quality
information on social media folds to the
bottom whereas the most invigorating and
emotionally creative byline is what gets
everybody's attention it's it's the same
thing on YouTube I mean you should know
this by now the headlines have to be
Jazzy and snazzy otherwise people aren't
interested if you don't have a snazzy
headline nobody clicks and then nobody
can get the perspective that actually
matters for example yesterday and then
we're going to talk about this 40-year
mortgage for example yesterday I suited
up and I went on mainstream television I
hopped on none other than everyone's
favorite channel on the left and
everyone's hated channel on the right
Newsmax okay obviously I purposefully
flipped that but yeah I went on
newsbanks I talked to Sean Spicer he's
talking to me about the following of the
dollar because that's more clickbait
that's going on right now and I'm like
dude if you're buying assets it doesn't
matter and they're like wait we didn't
even think about that you're saying we
could just buy real estate to stocks
bonds or gold or whatever some kind of
asset and then not even have to worry
about what our asset is denominated in
yes but you don't generally find that
headline or that body line because it's
not sexy so anyway
as much drama as there is going on
around this 40-year mortgage the 40-year
mortgage for a real estate perspective
would actually be a godsend for Real
Estate Investors specifically not for
big corporate landlords because big
corporate landlords are not going to get
access to these 40-year mortgages
specifically for you so let's take a
piece out of the Playbook of the uh you
know zero to millionaire uh course on
building your wealth right why do I have
a course on building your wealth the
zero to millionaire well I do there's a
coupon code linked down below you can
now use buy now pay later for because I
truly believe that every one of you can
become a millionaire through real estate
you have to buy property and hold
property now generally what people do is
they go to a mortgage calculator and
they say well but Kevin
if I take a 40-year mortgage I'm going
to pay a lot more interest over time and
that is true let's go ahead and do a
little calculation and uh see how much
more interest you would be paying and
then let's talk about maybe why this
just isn't what it seems so let's uh
grab the uh a share screen here
specifically on uh this uh this mortgage
calculator and what we're going to do is
we're going to calculate first the
difference in payment uh between what we
would expect for a 30-year mortgage but
then also what we would expect for a
40-year mortgage and we're going to
compare total interest paid and then
what we're going to do is uh we're going
to ask okay well why would we ever want
to pay more why would we do that we
would want to pay less right isn't the
goal to minimize the amount of interest
that we're paying and the answer to that
is not necessarily it depends on what we
are doing with our currency otherwise
with our cash so let's go through some
of the numbers here so first some of the
numbers let's look at a 350 000 purchase
price you know what let's bump that to
450 000 let's get with a more normalized
uh house here let's go with a more
normal interest rate today obviously
we're probably looking at about a six
and a half percent interest rate I
generally don't advise buying right now
and I don't think anybody actually
expects we're going to see a six and a
half percent interest rate for the long
term so let's go ahead with what I dealt
with a lot in 2000 or so a lot in 2009
and 10. when I started in the real
estate business bottom of the market
basically and the market was still
falling when I got in as we were
trending towards the bottom four and a
half percent let's assume that you're
not going to buy until rates are four
and a half percent or your average is
going to be four and a half percent if
you buy now and refinance later and
let's do a typical
15-year mortgage to go extreme here your
payment in this scenario with 10 percent
down on a 450 000 house four and a half
percent rate is about three thousand one
hundred dollars now that is not your
total payment for this property because
remember your total payment is actually
going to be made up of something known
as p i t i so that is going to be
principal interest taxes insurance and
then you have you have the pleasure of
also having HOA dues you can uh you
could throw those down so let's just put
PI right here and usually we I separate
p and I but just to make things a little
easier right now we'll just grab the
total right here and then we're going to
go get our taxes and unless you live in
the state of Texas you're probably going
to be sitting somewhere around 1.2
percent on an annualized basis so we're
going to divide that figure by 12. there
we go and let's make sure we have our
parentheses in the correct places there
we go now here's the magic of this
little Fun hack your property taxes on a
monthly basis are usually just the
purchase price minus three digits yeah
mind-blowing hack there eh
uh I I love little hacks in real estate
I teach endless hacks in the real estate
zero to millionaire course linked down
below okay then Insurance let's go with
about 75 now obviously this is going to
get adjusted if you're and let's say you
have no HOA because everybody hates HOAs
let's say you are
um not you know in a flood zone where
your insurance could be 275 dollars and
let's say you're not in Texas where your
property taxes could be doubled
if this is your payment for this
property is now
3623 now this is actually a little bit
problematic because if we want your
front end ratio don't worry you don't
have to know what that means if we want
your front end ratio for this property
to be 30 uh you know what I'll be
generous I'll go with 35 well then your
monthly income before we even consider
any of your other debts in your debt to
income your your monthly income is going
to have to be somewhere around ten
thousand three hundred dollars to afford
this property or one hundred twenty four
thousand dollars uh and this also
assumes that you have saved up about
forty five thousand dollars plus closing
costs so you're probably gonna be
sitting somewhere around fifty thousand
dollars now
okay well uh that's going to be a little
bit of an oof eh because not a lot of
people make a hundred twenty four
thousand dollars
uh but your total uh interest paid over
the life of the loan in this scenario
would be uh let's go over here 180
that's your 15 year your total interest
paid would be 152.6 and your total
principal payment would be 405. so let's
add a 405 plus one five two point six
your total paid for this home would be
sitting at
557.6 if you held it uh to the to the 15
in 15 years right
so that is how much you've actually paid
for the property if you held this loan
to maturity
fine okay now let's change these numbers
a little bit let's go with a 30-year
fixed rate mortgage and now we're going
to leave most of the other numbers the
same uh however look at your ability
your the necessity of qualifying how
that just changed let's actually write
it down and you need let's write down
need
124 000 of income
4K income to qualify
all right now let's change this again to
your typical 30-year fixed rate mortgage
at four and a half percent and in this
case you need
88.3 or 88.3 thousand dollars to qualify
for this 450 000 home now if you keep
this to maturity
you're going to be paying somewhere
around 738
000 for this house
738
000 in 30 years is how much you're going
to be paying for this house over that
lifetime okay now let's go with a
40-year mortgage
so 40-year mortgage oh and your payment
dropped too what was it your payment was
two thousand fifty two dollars so in
this case you had a 25.57 payment so
you'd have a payment would be here the
payment would be
33.6 K here the payment would be about a
2.6 K payment and then now your payment
would be about 20 52. oh no it would be
a little higher hold on the 2.6 is with
the yeah that's with the 30 year okay
let's drop this to 40. there we go 1821
brings you to about 2.3 okay 2.3 K
payment you would only need 80.4 K to
qualify so about 10 percent less income
to qualify
and your total over that period of time
paid for the property would actually be
800 and about seventy four thousand
dollars
eight hundred and seventy four thousand
dollars so now we look at this and when
we first see when we look at this the
first thing we do is we say oh my gosh
in order to qualify with lower income uh
needing just 80 000 of income so
basically a third less from 124 over
here oh what we're doing is we're making
housing more affordable this is true
you're making housing more affordable
but in order to make that housing more
affordable you're actually raising how
much money people are paying over time
right
not necessarily and so from a real
estate investor point of view the real
estate investor is almost always going
to choose the 40-year mortgage if they
have that option wait a minute Kevin why
would an investor pay more money that
doesn't make sense investors usually
want less money out all right well not
necessarily uh not necessarily because
what you're doing over here to an
investor is you're changing the cash
flow and the leveraged appreciation
factor for the property right and so
take a look at this if this property
rents for three thousand dollars a month
that's the rent well then and then we
add in Property Management expenses well
over here you would be sitting at a
negative cash flow on the 15-year
mortgage you'd be having a negative cash
flow of somewhere around
uh three four six hundred dollars so
you'd be negative six hundred dollars
per month on the 30 year you'd be
positive 200 a month and on the 40-year
mortgage your cash flow uh would end up
factoring in about this 200 in Property
Management expenses would be around 450
so you'd have higher cash flow which
actually because this is a fixed rate
loan means you would have more risk with
the 15-year loan but on top of that you
have leveraged appreciation right so
consider now that you're paying this uh
this property down uh with less of an
outlay every single year on an annual
basis you're putting into the property
with the 40-year mortgage you're putting
in 23.45 times 12. you're putting in
about 28 000 or going into this property
on the 30-year mortgage uh rough math
here you're putting in about thirty one
thousand two hundred dollars in the
property and on the 15-year mortgage
you're putting in about forty three
thousand two hundred dollars okay but
now if you had appreciation long run
appreciation of let's say three percent
you could even do the math with two
percent if you want but if you had
depreciation of three percent let's just
say given that this is leveraged
appreciation as well it's quite
fantastic but anyway we'll talk about
that leverage in a moment well anyway
um four hundred fifty thousand dollars
450 000 times appreciation of three
percent gives you about thirteen
thousand five hundred dollars right so
you've got about thirteen thousand five
hundred dollars of of uh appreciation
here
but now consider what you've actually
put into the property the total you've
put into the property where you put in
about 50 to buy it right so you put 50
in to buy it uh let's boost this to here
you put in 50 to buy it your actual cost
of the property since your your cash
flow offsets how much you're really
putting into it right here right uh your
your cash flow here so how much are you
actually putting in 600 times 12 net net
your net into this property 7 200 offset
by your appreciation 13 500 plus 7200
not even considering principal pay down
right not even considering principal pay
down here your net worth is up 6 300
bucks on the property just considering
cash flow leveraged appreciation uh and
that folks is on fifty thousand dollars
so if we divide this number here by
fifty thousand dollars
we're looking at a 12.6 irr okay but
let's do that over here well now we have
200 of cash flow plus the appreciation
so 200 a monthly cash flow that gives us
twenty four hundred dollars a year plus
thirteen five hundred of appreciation on
the property fifteen nine now we've
actually gained our net worth by fifteen
nine we're trying to leverage
depreciation point of view is actually
now 31.8 percent on ten percent down it
gets ridiculous when you only put 10
down but it shows you how remarkable
that leverage appreciation can be and it
does get that ridiculous this is why
buying your home is so phenomenal uh and
leveraging for as long as possible with
a fixed rate loan is so incredible but
now let's go ridiculous here and let's
take a 450 and this assumes you live
there for the first year and rent it out
there after right five thousand four
hundred dollars
plus leverage depreciation of Thirteen
thousand five hundred dollars eighteen
thousand nine hundred dollars
into fifty thousand dollars
is a 37.8 rate of return uh that's your
irr for the first few years right now
that irr goes down as you then reapply
that to your next year of the net worth
that you're into the property right
because for the second year that you're
into the property now you're into the
property fifty thousand dollars plus
that eighteen thousand nine hundred
dollars of wealth that you've created
but you can also be ridiculous here and
you could offset this by principal pay
down every month you're paying down
another 300 bucks in principle on the
40-year mortgage so you could be even
more ridiculous over here the point is
what if when you're leveraging real
estate you tend to have a much higher
internal rate of return than your
interest rate
and so when we look at the time value of
money and this is where I'm going to
sort of summarize this uh and make this
a little bit more clear because I know
sometimes it could be a little confusing
well we look at the time value of money
if your internal rate of return exceeds
the interest rate that you're paying
you should always make that choice
because your Net Present Value which is
just a finance way of saying uh it is a
good decision your net present value is
positive when your net present value is
positive you win and you want to do more
of that think about that if you're
paying a fixed interest rate of four
percent but you're actually earning
five percent on your money well that
generally gives you a net positive of
half a percent that might not be worth
it right but if you have an internal
rate of return of 12 because you
continue reinvesting into real estate
you continue buying rental property
which you can do an internal rate of
return of 12 is pretty realistic in real
estate no company can guarantee that to
you but it's pretty realistic because
what you do over time to repeat the
process is you continue to refinance as
you have sort of longer term leverage
appreciation you refinance you buy
another rental property how can you add
fuel to this fire and potentially look
at a 15 16 17 or more rate of return you
buy wedge deals you buy a wedge deal you
finance properties for the long term you
get leveraged appreciation and a wedge
deal over the long term your interests
your your net present value is
substantially higher than the interest
you're paying on the loan so anybody who
simplistically tells you that oh well
you're actually paying more for the
property Kevin why are you paying more
for the property well it's because the
government is trying to screw you
they're trying to get you to pay more to
the banks first of all that's a lie you
don't pay this interest to the banks
like people need to wake up and realize
this money doesn't go to the banks this
interest you're paying goes to
mortgage-backed security holders
not the banks now yes a lot of banks
hold mortgage-backed Securities but
guess who holds most mortgage-backed
securities individuals Pension funds
other individuals big Banks right now
the biggest banks Chase JP Morgan Chase
Bank of America they hold like seven
percent of their balance sheet and
Commercial mortgage-backed Securities
it's nominal most mortgage-backed
Securities are held uh not by large
institutions but the interest you're
paying is in the bank it's the
mortgage-backed security holder that's
important to remember but beyond that it
doesn't really matter whom you're trying
to stick it to by paying lower interest
this is the flawed number to look at
looking at your total interest paid is
the wrong Financial metric for
evaluating whether what you're doing is
a good decision or a bad decision
uh and unfortunately that's because in
America and widely around the world most
people have not been taught true
financial analysis and uh anybody who
and I want you to think about this web
anybody who says oh my gosh you're going
to be paying X dollars over the life of
that loan for an appreciating asset like
real estate
is missing the point of how wonderful
real estate is they don't understand
real estate investing so when I see that
drama on Twitter I just laugh and it
helps me realize we are going to be able
to create a multi-billion dollar company
because people just don't realize uh we
have simple and easy real estate is
now that's different for a car of course
should cars have a 10-year mortgage no
you should buy a used car and pay it off
in cash it's totally different very very
very different
now some people are like deeps here in
the chat is questioning uh appreciation
versus uh inflation generally real
estate appreciates at a higher rate than
the rate of inflation but at bare
minimum you're protected uh from
inflation with owning real estate
generally not this hyperinflation that
we've seen in this last cycle but
generally long-term average inflation we
tend to be protected by owning assets
uh and uh and then of course you know
when people say oh what about the
maintenance of a property well I just
that's purposefully why I built in an
additional 200 uh per month for uh
maintenance and management uh especially
if you manage the properties yourself I
mean think about it twenty four hundred
dollars buys you a new furnace every
year at twenty four hundred dollars for
four years buys you a new roof twenty
four hundred dollars buys you five new
stoves for just one year it buys you two
new water heaters you see what I'm
saying like you can maintain a property
on a twenty four hundred dollar budget
per month so that's not terribly
unrealistic I already built that in
so the beautiful thing now uh what you
can do is you could use buy now pay
later to join the programs on building
your wealth a link down below use that
coupon code before April 12th when the
coupon code will be expiring
so one positive dude says a 20 a 40-year
mortgage will take you 25 years to pay
more principal and interest who cares
that does not matter in fact most
sophisticated investment investors don't
pay any principal on their real estate
they actually take an interest-only Loan
in other words by taking an
interest-only loan you're not actually
doing a 30-year mortgage or 15-year
mortgage or a 40-year mortgage guess
what you're signing up for you're
signing up for an infinite mortgage why
do you think investors do interest-only
loans because they don't want to pay off
the debt paying off principal is not the
best use of capital it increases your
safety net the paying off principle is
not the best use of capital if you're
putting your hat on actually telling
yourself that you're going to hold a
loan for more than three to five years
you're somebody who's either facing
retirement or not financially literate
in real estate and that's okay that's
not designed to be offensive it's just
designed to be be realistic most people
refinance after three to five years and
they reset the amortization schedule
anyway somebody who says they're going
to hold a 30-year mortgage for 15 years
so they can finally start paying off
more principal and interest actually I
think that flip point is somewhere
around year 11. they're lying to
themselves they're not they're going to
refinance now hopefully they don't
refinance and buy garbage like a boxable
or an RV which is basically the same
thing or or spend money on a vacation uh
which I'm a big fan of spending money on
vacations just don't think you should
refinance your house to do that uh you
know that's that's financially
illiterate so nobody ever holds a loan
to the full term that's stupid it's
stupid to do that unless you're retired
if you were going into retirement you
are a different you're in a different
situation if you're growing your wealth
you don't hold your loan to term if you
are going into retirement you should pay
off your debts you should pay off
everything get a 15-year mortgage make
an extra payment make an extra two
payments a year pay that sucker off as
much as possible because you want to go
into retirement you want dividend stocks
and pay off your loans but if you're
trying to build your wealth you don't
build your wealth with a 15-year loan
and making extra payments that's
nonsense
so rant over thank you so very much for
being here I appreciate you all I will
be leaving now goodbye and enjoy your
Good Friday good
