well folks in this next piece we're
going to talk about this TS Lombard
argument that how is this cycle
different and every time we hear this
time is different we want to be nervous
but what they're actually saying is Tech
that's the only thing that's different
about this cycle what they discuss is
this argument that this cycle is
different because in every down cycle
there is a poster child for what got
overbuilt distorted and basically
bubbled up and this time Tia slombard
argues it's hex term it happens every
cycle an industry convincing themselves
and investors that they are a growth
industry immune to economic cycles and
then discovering they are after all a
cyclical business which means you are
affected by the business cycle after all
commercial real estate here is
potentially another obvious problem and
a coming issue for banks given that
Banks hold 50 percent of commercial
mortgages specifically the small ones
relative to the these smallers I'm sorry
the the larger Banks hold about seven
percent commercial mortgages it's the
Smalls and needs medium medium-sized
banks that have more of exposure here as
far as inflation high prices as opposed
to the rate of change needed to reverse
some of the items for consumers to gain
loss spending power blah blah okay if
not so let's make this clear as for
inflation high price levels as opposed
to the rate of change need to reverse
first for some items for consumers to
regain lost spending power in other
words what they're saying is
this time in this recession Tech is
potentially most exposed to a tech Crush
now it could be argued that that's
already happened but they're saying that
even if inflation goes away prices are
now so much higher right remember if you
paid a hundred dollars for a piece of
tech that now costs a hundred and twenty
dollars you have experienced 20
inflation over a certain period of time
be that one year two years six months
whatever
and if inflation now goes away you're
still at 120 dollars you have a zero
percent rate of inflation but you're
still paying more money what does that
mean that means individual people have
had their purchasing power their pricing
power reduced
and in order to regain pricing power you
might need to see wages go up however
we're not seeing wages go up in the form
of say a wage price spiral and if we are
not seeing wages go up and prices are
higher then people can simply afford
less stuff now an argument is being made
that today we have plenty of excess
savings still yes yes it is true that
not only do we have a lower savings rate
now than we did before the pandemic that
is true but we have a higher base of
savings remember what Bank of America
told us last month somebody with five
thousand dollars in their bank account
before the pan uh yeah before actually
the pandemic now sits somewhere at a 12
900 to 13 900 of extra cash but what
happens when that is spent
are we in a deep dark recession or have
we finally conquered inflation Jerome
Palace done with his rate hikes and we
can go back to the Glorious Bull Run of
the 2010 to 2019 cycle some people say
that's delusional other people say no
that's actually entirely what could
happen but let's see what TS Lombard
argues the coming reversal in credit
expectations will also help lower
inflation by pulling down service price
inflation so in other words less credit
less service inflation great but what
they see coming will be a downturn with
a recession that ends up correcting the
excesses of 2010 to 2019 specifically
Tech and asset values not simply a
correction of the post covet boom now
this is fascinating because this is
actually a Peter schiffian argument
Peter Schiff has argued that we are not
going through a crash of the Covenant
printing we are actually repaying the
debts of the bubble we created post
2008. T is Lombard is now echoing the
Peter schiffian argument
and folks that is one that could that
should create nervousness
now how could asset values go down well
let me make this argument in regards to
real estate so a lot of people obviously
you know this already well most of you
do but some people don't obviously uh
for those of you don't I'll explain I'm
a licensed financial advisor but I
started in real estate that's very rare
it's very rare that you have somebody go
uh from from Real Estate brokering to
financial advising this video isn't
personalized Financial advice because of
course I don't know you
um but but when I look at this I think I
I try to look at what's going on in the
economy from from both sides I try to do
the same thing in politics as well it's
very difficult because obviously
divisive videos do much better
but what I think is fascinating is this
potential that real estate
it may not necessarily rebound
immediately if rates drop we have this
expectation that the Bull Run of real
estate will continue if interest rates
drop but what might also happen if
interest rates drop the people who have
refused to sell might think oh well
interest rates are lower now now is a
good time for me to move and sell my
property or maybe I'll get a higher
price because interest rates are lower
but if everybody thinks that inventory
bubbles up and you could actually then
have substantially more inventory than
you previously had in the last eight
years frankly certainly during the
pandemic and if you have to adjust to a
higher level of inventory that it
doesn't matter if rates go down you
could actually see a real estate crush
and you could see that same real estate
Crush in residential which could just be
Amplified by a similar Crush that you
see in commercial real estate so I think
patience in real estate is very prudent
right now don't get me wrong I I my goal
with my real estate startup is to create
a a 10 to 100 billion dollar company uh
with house hack I could not be more
enthused uh about the path and
trajectory we're on and so I'm very
excited about that but I I'm also having
to be very cognizant of where are the
potential black swans individuals aren't
paying attention to so I run those
scenarios through my head and this TS
Lombard piece uh evokes some of those
potential fears uh now that's not to say
it's oh fud fear uncertainty doubt it's
this is this is a a real argument
so uh as uh Daniel here says in the chat
patience is a virtue I completely agree
uh and and maybe it could be considered
a normalization right all right so
um there's a little bit of a preview
they give here on jobs but we've already
gone through the jobs data mostly at
expectations here now I think this is
very interesting they show a confirmed
weakness in White Collar hiring and they
use this to basically say well the tech
sector is far from being relative to the
entire economy remember you could lay
off the entire
Silicon Valley Bay Area and only affect
three percent of jobs so while the tech
area is far from being relative to the
entire economy it has been on the margin
an important driver of overall growth
hiring and spending and a source of
income from the financial sector as well
as investment wealth when the tech
sector booms you have people who build
their wealth and when people build their
wealth what happens people can spend
more on services or going on holiday
going on vacation right Tech employment
increases 60 percent since 2009 look at
that difference that actually gives you
a a a a showing here look at this two
things here
non-public Tech firms uh net worth
versus non non-financial corporate Tech
X real estate so
non-financial this is a little bit
confusing let's look at this chart
instead I'm not going to try to
understand that one your live we'll
we'll understand this one together High
Tech versus says uh the private sector
excluding Leisure and hospitality and
social services so that would be private
sector jobs could be like manufacturing
uh PC repair
um to some extent that could be really
any local business that is outside of
tech and what you're finding is this
large wedge here between 2009 and 2022
where you've seen a boom in in hiring
for Tech relative to other sectors
commercial real estate obvious problem
notably The Leverage in large offices
yeah and and we realized this already
that JPMorgan just mentioned the other
day that we could be seeing a 350 to 400
billion dollar hit from commercial
mortgages I was just talking to uh a
another financial advisor yesterday and
they see
uh a potential we they see BlackRock
liquidating a substantial amount of
mortgage-backed Securities and the
liquidation of that could lead to the
selling of a substantial amount of real
estate assets we shall see commercial
real estate debt has been less of a
problem than it was in the 90s
commercial real estate recession over
here so you have less of a problem out
here in terms of commercial mortgages
outstanding in total uh and then you
could see that commercial real estate
held by Banks has been slightly trending
up versus non-banks the large banks have
been heavily moving into commercial real
estate whereas the non-large bank
lenders have been helping people with
30-year fixed rate mortgages these are
going to be your mortgage brokers your
direct lenders your UWM your rocket
mortgage and otherwise
uh dollars downward impact not finished
yet I actually believe that I think that
the dollar is likely to continue to fall
and uh that's why I started by taking a
short position last summer in the dollar
and uh I'm not short the dollar right
now anymore but I do think there's still
some move down uh potentially in the
dollar specifically as yields fall
remember as yields fall people's
desirability or interest in the US
dollar declines and that's because we
need the dollar in order to buy uh of
quote unquote safe assets like
treasuries and so uh the more yields are
high on our Ultra safe potentially the
safest asset in the world products the
more we end up with a demand for our
dollars that drives our dollar amount
so
you know
is take a listen over to CNBC so we'll
close off this section here uh let's do
a summary I suppose on TS Lombard I
guess the summer here would be is it
possible that if we combine this summary
uh let's think about it this way
combine this information from TS Lombard
with what the international monetary
fund said this morning that we could be
going into a five-year slowdown and what
do you face well you face an environment
where potentially you could have a
repayment or session of the bubble of
2009 to 2010's bull market and you could
have a five-year Slow blow recession
with a real estate slowdown over the
next five years
and in my opinion the next five years if
we have a slower recovery and we do not
simply Resort back to the excesses of
the 2010 to 2019 cycle I believe the
next five years would actually be a
glorious opportunity
to build your asset base think about it
what you want is your assets to be
massive in the future and if you
potentially invested in let's say
pricing power stocks today which got us
through the next five years and then we
went back into a bull run where credit
started expanding again rather than
tightening and real estate really
started recovering again
maybe you could set yourself up pretty
well by working hard over the next five
years and making sure you have as much
available Capital now that's something
we regularly talk about in the course
member live streams which I encourage
you to check out a link down below you
get lifetime access to those courses
under building your wealth and of course
you can use the coupon code that next
expires which means the price will be
going up on the 12th of April which is a
week from today when we will be covering
uh actually it's not a week from the day
it's actually only five days from today
when we will be covering the CPI release
and that's why we're creating the honor
of the CPI coupon code 69 off prices did
take up a little bit from the last time
and they will take up again after this
coupon expires and you can now use buy
now pay later to join
